Raptor training that sounds interesting
hey it's me Destin I'm at Auburn
University today at the southeastern
Raptor Center with Andrew and Andrew is
a pretty unique guy what do you do
Engrish I get to work with birds every
night every single day so today we have
a red-tailed hawk and once again Pete
all right Petey is going to hit the
target and we're going to capture it in
high-speed video we're going to show you
how bird control his whole wing it's
it's kind of like you know an airplane
controls just a control surface one one
particular area of the winged bird
control the whole way individually so
each individual feather is moving it's a
red try to catch for that high-speed you
think you'll hit the target oh yeah
all right so we're gonna see if we can
get the maneuver right win this is
levira
right wind Adira tries to stop that
interesting thing about these birds is
they're like this huge optical processor
and so the vision gives so much
stimulation that they have to shield
them so that they keep see my saying
everything for Shaun Africa all right so
what we're going to do is we have a
wide-angle lens setup with this
high-speed camera this is a phantom v10
what we're going to do is the bird is
going to fly in here and get this piece
of meat and if you look at the lens it's
got a big big bulbous on the outside
there that's a special type of Lance so
we can get this exact point of impact so
let's see what happens there
you
okay so the bird has to wear a leather
hood of her eyes because she's so
stimulated visually that she gets
irritated if she doesn't it's just like
this you and I are probably trichromats
which means we have cones in our eyes to
detect red green and blue light and when
we look at this rainbow cat that my
daughter made for me all the rest of the
colors are combination of these types of
light birds are not that way
burns are tetrachromats or even pinto
chrome ads which means they have over
two-thirds the amount of color
information that they have to process
that we don't this makes sense because
birds are most often the most colorful
species on the planet if you think about
it there might be a UV component of
light that they're seeing that we're not
so this Cardinal might not be red but
might be red and a little more UV or
less UV there's something else that
birds have to deal with and it's called
a high flicker fusion rate you and I can
detect a flickering light up to about 18
Hertz and beyond that it looks like a
smooth image that's why 25 or 30 frames
per second on video works well for us
but for birds they have a much higher
flicker fusion rate in fact if you throw
in a UV component of light they're
higher flicker fusion rate is about a
hundred Hertz which is pretty amazing so
if you think about it you and I are
calibrated so that we can go through
world walking and running well birds are
flying that's why they need the higher
flicker fusion rate because if they're
going through the woods they have to be
able to see a branch coming and make an
adjustment on the fly that makes
watching this video much more enjoyable
because it's high speed footage which
means it's simulating a flicker fusion
rates much higher than you or I are used
to it's like we're seeing the world
through the eyes of the bird
so if you look here as this bird tries
to grab this target and she misses she
sees with her high floor fusion rate and
tries to make an aerodynamic correction
on the fly to try to grab the target and
I think that is very cool dear Oh
it feels great it'll make people smarter
every day
alright so big thank you to Andrew
Andrew spent a lot of time helping me
coordinate this it was a lot of fun yeah
Eston thank you very much and we hope to
see you again do this again so that
Raptor Center hopes to see you guys
again appreciate it man
I'm ready one to the southeast Raptor
Center
and pounds of air they have to push so
if not their wings it's about it's cool
neck's dad what thank you
so the halex is what does the piercing
and all the other feet does that's the
biggest that's the biggest